The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled Ember Friday of Lent.
Pray for conversions.
Because he considereth and turneth away himself from all his iniquities, which he has wrought, he shall surely live and not die, saith the Lord almighty.
I am the father and the son of the Holy Spirit, amen.
My dear friends, today we're in this season of Lent, this first week of Lent.
We have these beautiful complimentary passages again, the passage from Ezekiel talking about
the sinner who returns.
As I just read to you, a sinner returns and gives up his sin.
He shall surely live.
But if a just man changes and does injustice, he shall surely die.
This is why our Lady said so important in a nutshell of what all Ezekiel say.
Man must stop offending God.
He's too much offended by sin.
And then we see the
solution with Jesus and the church, we'll think about confession and so on.
When we come to the gospel, the withered man who could not walk and so on was at the pool for 38 years.
And we know from what Jesus, what the gospel tells us that an angel would come down and stir the water and the first one into the pool after the stirring of the water would be cured.
My dear friends,
That's certainly an impossible thing in a way.
The man's been there probably 38 years, still hasn't made it first.
How tough it must have been to be the first one in that pool after the stirring of the water.
Well, what a contrast it is with us in the Catholic Church.
We can get our sins forgiven and we become whole again.
Everybody, we don't have to wait for the water to be stirred.
whose sins you shall forgive, they are forgiven.
We know that Jesus said that to the apostles, and the church has the power to forgive sins.
And this is the most wonderful thing in the world.
We could, of course, get our sins forgiven with a perfect, active contrition, but that's not easy, right?
That's not easy to have.
But we know we go to confession, and with the absolution of the priests, I absolve you in the name of the Father,
the Son and the Holy Ghost, your name, your sins are forgiven.
My dear friends, what a wonderful grace.
What a wonderful grace.
I keep on thinking of the salvation of souls and how sad it's going to be.
Of all sad words, of tongue and pen, the saddest of these it might have been.
How many souls are going to be in hell for all eternity?
when they didn't have to be.
All they needed to be was to be in the right church, as I've been telling you all week.
The Catholic Church with the forgiveness of sins.
And if they're Catholics, all they needed to do was go to confession of all sad words.
The saddest of these by John Greenleaf Witte, an American poet, are these.
It might have been.
I might have saved my soul if I had only confessed my sins.
and been sorry for them.
But I kept on sinning and living a wicked life.
This is why it's so important to preserve our innocence.
And that's why Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, blessed are the clean of heart for they shall see God.
The clean of heart, those who do not sin, who repent and are clean of heart, they shall see God in all things.
and they shall save their soul.
This is why it's so important to have the innocence of children preserved and in our own lives to make sure we get back to clean of heart, get rid of all of our sins.
It's the most wonderful thing in the world.
Blessed are the clean of heart, Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount.
They shall see God.
They shall see God, of course, in heaven, but they should also see God in earth.
They'll see God in everything because they're clean of heart.
So, my dear friends, it's so important for us to be clean of heart, to make a good confession.
Today, we're going to do the Stations of the Cross.
I'm not going to say too much more.
And we have the Stations of the Cross by the great moral theologian of the Catholic Church, St. Alphonsus Logore.
My dear friends, when St. Alphonsus speaks,
We stand up and listen.
When any of the great saints, Thomas Aquinas, Augustine, how blessed we are in the Catholic Church to have all these great saints who teach us the truth.
This is why it's so important for you to pray and for people who are not sure what church is the right church.
If they pray and they honor God and glorify God, they will be enlightened.
And their minds will no longer be darkened.
So pray.
You pray for them and tell them to pray if you're talking to them about converting.
And they should be in the Catholic Church.
This is the Church of England.
The Catholic Church, the Church of England for a thousand years before Henry VIII went to become a heretic and dissolved monasteries
modern saints, killed many people who wouldn't go along.
I always, I tell you all week, how can anybody in being a church who was, which was founded by such a man, right?
Can't be.
Get back into the true church.
There's only one true church, one holy Catholic and apostolic.
So my dear friends, this is important because how else are people gonna save their souls, but to get rid of their sins?
and to live on the holy Eucharist, as I've been saying all week.
I am the living bread that has come down from heaven.
If anybody eat this bread, he shall live forever.
And the bread I give is my flesh for the life of the world.
So let us pray the rosy, my friends, for all those people who are not Catholics, that they will see the truth.
Pray the rosy for all those Catholics who have lapsed so they can save their souls.
and come back to the fold where there be one fold and one shepherd.
May the Lord bless you.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, Ember Friday of Lent, Pray for Conversions.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, 38 Days to Perfection.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
By virtue of this mystery, O Lord, may our vices be cleansed away and our righteous desires accomplished.
The theme throughout the prayers of the Mass today is the theme of healing, which does not surprise us given the gospel that is read today.
To understand the importance of this Mass, we must travel back in time to the earliest age of the Church when the Church first emerged from the Catacombs.
Today, as may be indicated in some of your missiles, the Station Church is the Church of the Holy Apostles in Rome.
This is where Mass would be celebrated then today by the Holy Father.
You may have probably recall that I have spoken to you about this Church of the Holy Apostles before.
It is where we find the beginnings of our Novena to the Immaculate Conception.
From about 500 years ago all the way until today, the Novena to the Immaculate Conception is celebrated in the Basilica of the Holy Apostles in Rome.
That is the restored Basilica, the one that was rebuilt in the 15th century.
Today we must think however of the earliest version of this basilica, the one that we find just at the end of the age of martyrs when basilicas begin to be built for the worship of God in the eternal city of Rome.
Today then, all those who are about to be ordained to holy orders tomorrow would be gathered together after the hour of none for the celebration of this penitential mass today in preparation
placing themselves under the patronage of all the holy apostles when they are soon to imitate in their ministry.
And as for our Lord, today they encounter him as the gentle healer who comes to heal especially from sin.
The church fathers marvel always at the numbers that we find in the gospels and so today they assume there must be some great significance to the fact
that this man who is healed by the pool cannot reach the pool where the angel comes and touches it for the healing of others.
This man is healed by our Lord.
But after having been 38 years in his infirmity, St. Augustine explains, yes, he has fallen short.
He has not done 40 or 40 is the example given to us by the law, the prophets and our Lord Himself.
naming these three figures whom we encounter throughout this week and especially on Embers Saturday and this coming Sunday, the three we find on Mount Tabor, our Lord, Moses, and Elias.
All three of these figures fasted for 40 days.
This man has two lacking, two years, is only 38.
The church herself
sees the great importance of this number.
We cannot doubt that because of the fact that if we count from today all the way through Easter Sunday, we arrive at 38 days.
These are the days yet lacking to us in our Lenten pilgrimage.
But the point that St. Augustine makes about the days lacking, which in the case of this man is
the 38 years and not a full 40.
He said it is because two things are lacking.
The twofold commandment of the gospel, love of God and love of neighbor.
This is what brings us to completion.
And it is what brings to completion all of our penitential practices, the observance of the law of Christ.
Although the man is healed in body, our Lord makes it clear that the healing of his soul is what is important for
He finds him in the temple later, after he has already spoken to the Jews about who healed him.
And he says to him, Behold the art made whole, sin no more, lest some worse thing happen to thee.
This accords with the words of the prophet, which we hear today, the prophet Ezekiel.
Words that in fact form part of the morning office of the church every day of Lent, the office of crime.
where the Lord says, as I live, I do not will the death of a sinner, but that he should be converted and live.
On the one hand, the Lord says, if a man converts from his evil ways, I will no longer remember his evil deeds.
On the contrary, if he returns to them after his conversion, all of his good deeds will not be remembered.
This is the stern admonition that comes to us today, and why the church then implores again and again throughout this mass
that we may be healed not only in body but in soul, that by our penitential practices and above all by bringing them to completion through the observance of the perfect law of charity, we may be fully cleansed of our vices filled with Christ's grace and prepared then for the joys of Easter.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
I hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled 38 Days to Perfection.
Our next sermon for today is entitled This Lent, Remember Our Baptism.
In the name of the Father and the Son
The Holy Ghost, Amen.
This morning we read on the Friday, the Ember Friday of Lent, this very moving Gospel that we have read many times during our lives.
But every time we come upon it, we may look at it with new eyes.
especially with the renewed spirit of penance that we may see how our Lord works through the places that He interacts with His people.
There are stories about this pool that our Lord had visited probably many times during His life.
This present pool, which is situated in Jerusalem if you were to go to the Holy Land, it is in one of the quarters
of sections in the old city and now it has been drained there is no more water unfortunately however there is a very nice church next to it called Saint Anne that has been repaired and restored by the French Catholic Church this pool had been named Bethesda or according to the Gospel Bethsaida
and there are different formations of this word but one translation that we can take upon this word Bethesda would be house of mercy house of mercy Hesda it can also mean with the formations if it's if the letters were a little bit changed the spelling because there are many types of spellings for this full Beth Zedah
Versaida, then we can call it also the pool of grace.
And we can then conclude that this could be a prefiguration of the cleansing waters of holy baptism.
There are also extra biblical stories on how the pool gained its therapeutic and salvific value.
and one of the stories which of course we are not bound to believe but who would have an inspiration for us to think about nature especially during these ember days is the tree of Adam the tree that Adam was told not to partake in the tree of the knowledge of good and evil somehow a branch of it was probably taken was replanted and this tree was chopped up over time
and this tree was then buried in this pool.
We are not bound to believe it, but it is a story that we can say.
And somehow this, during the Passion of Christ, this big portion of wood of the tree floated up from this pool of Bethesda and became one of the instruments, one of the parts of the Holy Cross that our Lord carried to Calvary.
the exactly the the horizontal part of the beam where his hands were fixed upon.
Whether or not we know for truly if this was the case of the origin of that certain wood of our Lord's cross, we know for sure that the pool of Bethesda was a source of healing for many infirmed and sick blind people.
This represents our soul
who are still in this pilgrimage to heaven.
We continue to purify ourselves and wait for the moments of grace that God gives to us freely.
And in this, we see the angel of the Lord which stirs the waters, but unfortunately only one person can get at the pool in one time, along with the five particles that surround it, which
which symbolizes the five moons of Christ.
And so this pool, which no longer exists, still signifies the salvific element of holy baptism.
And that is why today, let us recall our anniversary of our baptism long ago, and that we can gain a plenary indulgence
when we renew our baptismal vows on the anniversary of that holy sacrament, that holy sacrament of salvation that opens the doors for us to worship our Lord, which deputizes us to come to mass to hear instruction and to receive the other sacraments of Holy Mother Church.
Let us be grateful then, dear faithful, on how our Lord
had shown in this man who was not able to walk, that had a mat for his bed, had waited all his life to wait for that moment of the pool, but yet that healing moment was actually there in Christ Jesus.
Imagine this man who had been infirmed for 38 years symbolizes the amount of penance that we ought to take.
38 is close to 40, and therefore most of our lives should really be then in a spirit of penance, of sacrifice.
This is the model that we ought to follow and emulate, that we always have to offer ourselves for the greatness, for the greater glory of God.
And to think about others as well, and our neighbor, so that we can fulfill the double act
the double-fold law of charity of loving our Lord first and foremost and loving our neighbor as we love ourselves.
And in this, if we do this in the context of the laws and precepts of Holy Mother Church, in the joyful spirit of fasting and abstinence that we can partake, especially on Friday where the Lent, the Friday of Lent is one that we have to abstain from flesh meat.
Let us then remind ourselves this deprivation that we ought to offer for our soul and for the glory of God.
And that we, by doing these deprivations now, will help us to alleviate any type of temporal punishment due to sin later on.
And this quickens then our union, God willing, with our Lord in heaven.
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled This Lent.
Remember our baptism.
Our next sermon for today is entitled The Crown of Thorns.
There's always more to learn in the church, especially about what has previously been done and taught.
We shouldn't make the mistake of thinking that the church that we know today, as far as we're concerned, was a church that people knew hundreds of years ago.
Things were very, very different.
And among that is the calendar.
It used to be in the old days,
You know, people wouldn't really gauge the year by the calendar date, you know, March 17th or March 25th or August 15th or whatever.
They would do it by Saints' Days.
It's St. Patrick's Day, or it's the Feast of the Annunciation, or it's, you know, two days past the adaptation of the cross.
Like, that's how they would know.
When were you born?
I was born on St. Martha's Day.
Like, that's what people would know.
I think the church calendar keeps getting changed and I would guess they're trying to make improvements.
But I don't think it was an improvement to have removed from Lent the devotions to the instruments of the Passion on every Friday of Lent.
So today is the crown of thorns.
That was the day dedicated to venerating the crown of thorns.
And then I don't know all of them, but it's going to be the lance, which speared our Lord's side.
It's going to be the cross.
So all the instruments, the nails in our Lord's hands and feet.
So all of those instruments were venerated on every Friday of Lent, obviously, because that was when our Lord was crucified.
So I will be speaking today on the crown of thorns, because it is a holy relic, we have it, and the significance is very great.
And then I hope to do so as well with the rest of the relics on the Friday's of Lent.
So the crown of thorns, this is a relic from the very beginning of the church.
Those thorns that were plated by the soldiers placed on our Lord's head and a reed placed in his hand in mockery of him and then they mocked him, all hail king of the Jews.
Well he was a king and the
The crown itself we have.
We have kept it down through the ages and it's been venerated from the beginning in Jerusalem.
Very early on, authors are writing about the crown of thorns being venerated, I think in the 400s that is the earliest written account, and that it was all the way there until 1083.
And that was after the Crusades and it was taken from Jerusalem to Constantinople by the Crusaders for safekeeping from Muslim aggression.
The Crown of Thorns was later given to King Saint Louis IX, that great crusader, who took it to Paris and built the magnificent Saint-Chapelle in 1248 to house the Crown of Thorns.
After the French Revolution, the Crown of Thorns was in various places until finally resting nowadays in the Cathedral of Notre Dame.
And it was, if you remember the fire of Notre Dame in 2019, the crown of thorns was actually rescued from there by, I think it was one of our chaplains.
He had been a chaplain in the fraternity and he was a chaplain there by Notre Dame and he was the one who rescued the relics.
And we do have, what happened to this particular relic is quite interesting in that it seems that they did the test of the scientific test on the thorns itself.
And it's from a plant, which is native to Jerusalem.
It would have been everywhere at the time, but it's too hard to kind of weave into a circle.
It can be more kind of bent.
So what it seems that the soldiers did is they took two different plants.
They took a reed, a bendable reed, which they made into a circle and then bent the crown of thorns over the reed.
So there was two parts to the crown.
And what has survived was the actual thorns, the kind of the plant itself.
And over time, you know, parts of these thorns were given away.
And so different places would get different reeds and they would make a circlet and then put whatever parts of the crown of thorns they have over it.
So this is where you get the accusations that there are like three or four or five crowns of thorns.
It's because there are artificial reeds but with the actual thorns around them.
So don't be scandalized if you hear such accusations.
There's always an explanation of what happened.
Also what happened over the centuries is the faithful would venerate the crown of thorns.
They would want a relic, but there's only so many thorns.
So rather than giving people thorns, they would bring their own.
They would bring a thorn and touch it to the relic, and then have third class relics of the crown of thorns.
And this is what would lead to the great skepticism starting with a Protestant revolution.
You had, especially John Calvin, that arch heretic, was very critical of the crown of thorns, and it's sad that his skepticism has even crept into the church today, because you still find, even among Catholics,
that kind of skepticism.
Oh yeah, there's three heads of John the Baptist and five crown of thorns, right?
We don't believe any of it.
And that is not a proper attitude to have because even though there are these third-class relics and so on and so forth, even if there was only one actual remaining thorn from the crown of thorns, you didn't know which one it was, you would have to venerate everything with respect because out of fear of profaning that one actual relic.
Just like if you have a host, if you have a host and you're not sure there's one,
valiantly consecrated host in a whole suborium, you have to treat the entire suborium with respect.
You don't just discount the whole thing and say, well, there are so many fakes that who cares if we trample over the actual one.
That is not a pious attitude.
That is not the proper attitude we ought to have.
Rather, we ought to venerate these relics properly, even if some of them are third-class relics and not first-class, and, well, only the thorns are from our Lord's crown and not the reed.
Well, who cares?
What's important is that he suffered this for us.
The crown of thorns is very fitting in two ways for God because he is a king, he's king of the universe with absolute majesty, but he is also humble and he came to earth and submitted himself in humility in order to redeem us.
I mean, it's such a fitting and a wonderful devotion for us to have because our most difficult sin to overcome is pride.
We are so proud and we are so indignant when people treat us rudely or with contempt or we just, we get respect but we don't get as much respect as we thought we should have had.
And we become so angry about this.
How can we?
I mean, how dare we?
When we know about the crown of thorns, when we have this example of Christ,
who was spit upon, who was ridiculed, who was miscreant, who was scourged, who was put to death, who was accounted as the off-scouring of this world, and he was the Lord of all.
I mean, how can we even dare to raise our heads under any abuse or ridicule having this example before us?
You know, it's fitting, remember man, that thou art dust, and unto dust thou shalt return.
That would be fitting for us to recall.
Anytime we feel our pride wounded, we should call to mind that example of Christ's crowning of thorns.
Wait, what right do I have to be indignant?
How can I possibly get angry?
Look at what Christ suffered, who he was, and what he suffered, and that was completely unjust and unwarranted in every single degree.
And who am I?
I am nothing.
I am ashes, I am dirt.
We say worse than dirt and worms, because dirt doesn't sin.
Worms have not offended God, but we have.
So we can account ourselves truly lower than dirt and deserving to be trampled upon.
And it's a fitting image that ashes are placed on our head.
Not only did we come from the dirt, but ashes symbolize things.
Ashes are what's left over after what's been burned.
Father Krager made this point on Ash Wednesday.
He said, Ashes are what's left over after they've been burned, and that is a fitting reminder to us what we would be had we not been redeemed.
We would be burned in internal fire, nothing but ashes.
Ashes are trodden underfoot.
Ashes are what, they're scattered, they're thrown onto the ground, they're thrown into trash heaps, they're counted as worthless.
The one thing that ashes are good for is fertilizer, is to help other things grow.
And that is really what we ought to, how we ought to be ourselves.
If I'm good for anything, who am simply ashes and dust, it's only to help others grow.
That's what I really should consider myself.
I'm not worthy to be venerated.
I wasn't placed on this earth to be praised and adored and loved and glorified.
All that belongs to God.
What are ashes good for?
Fertilizer.
To help other things grow.
And they're trodden upon and they're cast about and they're scattered and that's fine with me.
that really should be the attitude we have, and all of that can come from a meditation simply on the crown of thorns.
And here's one more thing on its authenticity.
What's interesting is, I mentioned at the beginning, our Lord was crowned with thorns and a reed was placed in his hands.
Where is the reed?
Is there any devotion to the reed which our Lord had on his hands?
There's not, because it doesn't exist.
They didn't find it.
They have no relic of the reed in his hands.
If these were forgeries and these were fakes, why do we have the lance and the nails and the cross and the headpiece over our Lord's cross, the cross itself and the crown of thorns, but we don't have the reed he held in his hands?
Because nobody found it.
It was never discovered.
That lets you know that these are not inventions.
If somebody was inventing these relics afterwards and was like, let's create an invention of our Lord,
they would have included everything.
They would have included, let's get the cap, and let's get the read, because that's what he held, and let's put these forth of veneration.
That's what phonies do.
That is what fakers do, is they try to be so careful that they get everything.
So you can count the absence of relics as proof of the authenticity of the other relics that we do have.
And like I said, we have written records all the way back to the fifth century.
So but in the end,
We should consider it's not the relics themselves that really have value for us.
We don't even need, even if it didn't exist.
We wouldn't need the crown of thorns because we have right here the head upon which it rested.
This is Christ himself in our tavernacles.
But all the rest of these relics, the things that we can see, they help to strengthen our faith.
and make it real to us because we have to see the blessed sacrament with the eyes of faith.
We can't see Christ as He really is.
But it is.
It is these things like the crown of thorns, like the holy shroud of Turin, like the cross, like the nails, all of which with our modern methods of dating prove their authenticity that helps to strengthen our faith.
But we do have merit.
We have merit for believing what we can't see.
But don't we know there comes to a point where we have to move beyond the physical and trust simply in God because it does get hard, right?
When life gets difficult and it seems like, why is God against me?
And we do all this fasting and penance and it seems like God is distant or it was cold, it doesn't care.
you know, all the helps in the world, you know, external helps are going to help us in the inside.
We have to have that firm inside faith which trusts and believes in God no matter what's on the outside, like those apostles on Holy Saturday.
You know, let's strive to have that kind of faith.
This was the Messiah.
He was dead and they didn't know the resurrection was coming.
Let's keep that in mind.
Is the apostles believed even through the death of Christ?
even though they had no idea of Easter Sunday.
Imagine seeing Good Friday without knowing Easter Sunday is coming.
What would that do to our faith?
But I would say, let us pray for an increase of faith.
It is relics such as this, which help to serve, strengthen, unalien our faith, but also our determination and resolution to remain in humility, looking at what God suffered, looking at how He humbled Himself.
How can we do any different?
So let's ask for that virtue, this coming Lent.
May God bless you all.
The name of the Father and the Son, the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, The Crown of Thorns.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Be Made Whole.
The name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, during this Friday of the Ember Week in Lent, the first week in Lent, we consider the beautiful episode of this paralytic at Pond near the Temple of Jerusalem where Jesus was on that day.
He went up to Jerusalem
there was a festival day of the Jews and he came to this pond which is called in Hebrew Bethsaida and Probatica the pond of the sheep literally.
There were many people just sitting there and especially sick people waiting for the water to have
a supernatural motion it was believed so an angel came from time to time to move the water and the first who got into the water was healed there were lame and all kinds of sick people waiting for this miraculous water to be healed
There was also a paralytic man who laid in his condition since 38 years waiting for the time for his time traps to be healed by this water.
Jesus came along and saw him and he knew that he had that paralysis since a long time.
And Jesus asked him, what do you want?
What are you doing here?"
And he said, I'm waiting for the water to be, now to get into this motion and to be perhaps healed.
And Jesus said to him, take up your bed and go home.
He was on a Sabbath, was a Saturday.
And when the Jews saw this miracle happening, they were of course complaining
to Jesus, or complaining to the man first, they didn't know that it was Jesus who made that miracle.
It is not lawful for you to take up your bed on Saturday.
Regardless of his disease, of his condition, it is not all right.
You have to stick to the law.
But what is very significant in this dialogue, especially the dialogue between Jesus and the man, the sick man, who was healed by Jesus' word is the fact that Jesus found him again and told him, look, man, you have been healed miraculously, but seen
no more, lest some worse thing happen to you.
This is the main teaching that we have in this scriptural passage, the Gospel of Saint John chapter 5.
Another very significant detail, but not a detail, proving the historicity of this fact is that John, in his Gospel, is describing
perfectly this pond in Jerusalem made by five porches.
The archaeological excavations has found exactly that pond described by John with five porches.
So this is a historical data very, very
important to also understand the historicity of the fact as well.
But Jesus says to this man, seen no more.
We then understand that the reason why that man was paralytic was his sin.
And this is the only case we have in the Gospel where the sickness is directly linked by Jesus with sin.
There is also another case of miraculous cure.
You remember the blind man since his birth cured by Jesus.
The disciples were asking who sent himself or his parents to be in that condition.
And Jesus replied, no one.
But this disease was in order to give glory to God with that miracle.
This is the case where this man is affected by his problem, his paralysis, because of his sin.
Can a sin also affect a bodily life, a health condition?
Yes, it can, because man is made by God.
He's a unity of body and soul.
Whatever is against us, soul is against our body.
and vice versa.
We then understand that if we have a very good conversion as we should during this Lent, also our body is healed.
Also our health is improved because in any case this spiritual life, spiritual health is something
to give us life.
It gives us a new life, a life that makes us whole.
Finally, if we want to also have a more spiritual, allegorical understanding of this passage, we can quote Saint Augustine, who
commented on this Gospel, he wrote the whole commentary on the Gospel of Saint John.
In dealing with this passage, Saint Augustine says that 40, the number 40 is the fullness of the law.
Quadra Ginta, this is also the reason why we have 40 days in length and 40 is very central in the Bible.
40 is the fullness of the law.
But we also know that the very heart of the law is the precept of love, charity, love God above all other things, and love your neighbor as yourself.
Two precepts.
So this man lacked these two precepts of love to make that number 40
He had a need to be healed by Jesus to have this charity.
In fact, he didn't have this charity because he was laying in sin.
The charity of Christ, the love of Christ made him whole so that he could match with his life the fullness of love, the fullness of love, which is the gospel of
Christ.
Let us try to see at this gospel from this spiritual perspective to have to try to strive every day after this commandment to love God and to love a neighbor in order to have that spiritual healing to be healed.
bodily and in us all by Jesus our Lord.
Amen.
In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Spirit.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, Be Made Home.
Our final sermon for today is entitled, Saint Augustine explains the mystery of 38.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
In the mass today, we hear from the Gospel of Saint John,
And very often, indeed we may often assume that if we are reading from the Gospel of St. John, the Father who will be preaching to us that day will be St. Augustine.
Although St. Augustine is not the only Father to write a commentary on the Gospel of St. John, this is perhaps the most famous.
St. Cyril wrote one as well, St. Cyril of Alexandria.
But certainly in the West,
St. Augustine's commentary on the Gospel of St. John amongst the father's reigns supreme.
St. Augustine is also one of the illustrious fathers of the fourth century.
He lived toward the end of the fourth century, just as St. Athanasius and then St. Hilary and the West lived toward the beginning of this century.
St. Augustine comes more toward the end.
He was received into the church by St. Ambrose,
of Milan.
Indeed, some would say that St. Augustine reigns supreme above all of the fathers.
Certainly, when it comes to the quantity of his writings, especially because so many of them have come down to us, he seems to dwarf all of the other fathers, although I wouldn't want
us to neglect any of the others of this glorious period of the Church Father simply because St. Augustine, great as he is, wrote so much, and therefore overshadows all of them.
If you have read anything by St. Augustine, I suppose it is most likely that you have read his confessions.
That is the story of his conversion, where we learn so much about his holy mother, St. Monica.
Certainly, I would recommend that is where you should start if you were to read anything by St. Augustine.
You can start by reading his Confessions.
This is a wonderful time of year to do so.
Many of you have also read the City of God, which is his glorious portrayal of the Church.
It is his entire Christian worldview, as it were.
And this is a very good one for you to read as well.
If you would like to turn to something else after that, then I suppose his commentary on the Gospel of Saint John would be a wonderful choice.
You could have your Gospel of Saint John in hand along with your commentary by Saint Augustine.
Now today Saint Augustine offers us an allegorical interpretation of this passage of the Gospel, but he justifies himself in doing this
Because of the very nature of the gospel itself, we all believe with divine faith that the gospels, like all the books of the Bible, are divinely inspired, and therefore we cannot pass over any word, or indeed, as is the case today, any number in the gospel or in any other part of the Bible without taking note of something important having been said.
And today it is very clear what is said, the details we are given seem at first glance to be of little importance to us so many centuries later.
Yet the fact that the evangelist was careful to note down these details for us only shows that they must be of some importance.
Such at least is the teaching of Saint Augustine.
And says by this pool, this pool
in the area called Bethsaidab, a pool which has no water in it today, but you can visit this area if you go to the Holy Land.
He says there was a certain man who had been there 38 years in his infirmity.
And Jesus comes to him and he asks him, does thou wish to get well?
And the sick man answered him, sir, I have no one to put me into the pool.
when the water is stirred, for while I am coming another steps down before me.
And Jesus simply said to him, rise, pick up my pallet, and walk.
What makes us pause, and indeed what made St. Augustine pause here, is the insistence on the number 38.
Why does the evangelist bother to tell us that the man was 38 years old?
We can have no doubt that Holy Mother Church endorses fully the teaching of St. Augustine on this passage.
Not only does she place his sermon in the night office that all priests read it today, but in fact, today is a very important day on which to place the reading of this gospel.
We have 38 days left until Easter.
And so we can have no doubt that is why the church placed this gospel at this point, especially because St. Augustine teaches that this number 38 has everything to do with this time of Lent.
that we are observing.
He speaks of the 40-day fast, which in his time was already very long established, as a preparation for Easter, the 50 days he speaks about, the 50 days of Easter.
We prepare by 40 days and he asks, why is this man 38 years old and infirm?
He has not reached the perfect number, the number of penance, has not reached the number 40 because two numbers are lacking.
What in fact is lacking to this man of 38 years?
St. Augustine explains that everything that has led up to this in the life of our Lord and his ministry makes it very clear.
When we say that the number two is missing, we mean that the New Testament is missing for men.
Because what came with Christ in the New Testament is the twofold commandment, love of God and love of neighbor.
which consists all the law and the prophets.
All perfection is to be found in the perfect law of Christ.
Love of God and love of neighbor.
This is what is lacking to this man who has 38 years but has not reached this perfect age which will come now because our Lord heals him.
Our Lord grants to this man who represents indeed all those awaiting the coming of the New Testament.
And in a moral sense, refers to all of us who have undertaken this time of penance because we are so sorely lacking in the commandments of Christ.
Christ is here now, this very day, to heal us from our infirmity with His twofold law of love.
If we humble ourselves before Him today, then we know that by His grace we shall be granted an increase of charity
charity will fill our hearts, and we will have the Holy Trinity dwelling within us, and thus be able to fulfill this twofold commandment of love, which is impossible to fulfill without divine grace.
It is thus, says St. Augustine, that we shall receive, as he says, our denarius, that is, our Henne,
which signifies, of course, 10 counts of currency, which he explains as why then, after 40 days of penance, we celebrate Easter for 50 days.
We crown our time of penance with a denarius, with a tenfold piece of currency, so that we have full 50 days of celebration after our 40 days of fasting.
This day as the Church wishes us to regard it as a time for the renewal
of our Lenten resolutions regarding how much we have failed even in this first week of Lent.
And as a full 38 days remain to us now, until the glories of the resurrection, let us resolve to humble ourselves before our Lord in confession and beg for an increase, charity, the love of God and love of neighbors so that we may perfectly fulfill the law of Christ.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
This has been Sermons for Everyday Living from the Station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app
under sermons for everyday living.
Have a blessed day.